README.md, before:

# Jenkins-CI-CD-OCI
[![License: UPL](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-UPL-green)](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-UPL-green)

Deploy a Jenkins CI/CD pipeline using Docker containers on Oracle Linux VM


## Reference Architecture 
The final reference architecture after the deployment and some key components are described below.

![Reference Architecture](https://github.com/ahmedmansour5/Jenkins-CI-CD-OCI/blob/main/Image/Architecture.png)


## Prerequisites

- Permission to `manage` the following types of resources in your Oracle Cloud Infrastructure tenancy: `vcns`, `internet-gateways`, `route-tables`, `network-security-groups`, `subnets`, and `instances`.

- Quota to create the following resources: 1 VCN, 1 subnet, 1 Internet Gateway, 1 NAT Gateway, 2 route rules, and 1 compute instance.

If you don't have the required permissions and quota, contact your tenancy administrator. See [Policy Reference](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/Reference/policyreference.htm), [Service Limits](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/Concepts/servicelimits.htm), [Compartment Quotas](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/General/Concepts/resourcequotas.htm).

## Deployment Options
The pipeline can be deployed on [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure][oci] using the below deployment options:

1. [Terraform][tf] 
2. [Resource Manager][orm_landing] by clicking the following button  [![Deploy to Oracle Cloud][magic_button]][magic_rm_stack]


## Deploy Using Oracle Resource Manager
The steps below guide you through deploying the pipeline on your tenancy using the OCI Resource Manager:

1. Download the [`jenkins-stack-configuration.zip`](https://github.com/ahmedmansour5/Jenkins-CI-CD-OCI/releases/latest/download/jenkins-stack-configuration.zip) file.
2. [Login](https://cloud.oracle.com/resourcemanager/stacks/create) to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure to import the stack
    > `Home > Developer Services > Resource Manager > Stacks > Create Stack`
3. Upload the `jenkins-stack-configuration.zip` file that was downloaded earlier, and provide a name and description for the stack
4. Configure the stack
   1. **Jenkins username** - Provide a username for jenkins login
   2. **Jenkins password** - Provide a password for jenkins login
5. Review the information and click Create button.
   > The upload can take a few seconds, after which you will be taken to the newly created stack
6. On Stack details page, click on `Terraform Actions > Apply`

The private ssh key for the Linux VM will be displayed along with the public ip of the server on the Application Information tab.

## Deploy Using the Terraform CLI

### Clone the Repository
Now, you'll want a local copy of this repo. You can make that with the commands:

    git clone https://github.com/ahmedmansour5/Jenkins-CI-CD-OCI.git
    cd Jenkins-CI-CD-OCI
    ls

2. Create a `terraform.tfvars` file, and specify the following variables:

```
# Authentication
tenancy_ocid         = "<tenancy_ocid>"
user_ocid            = "<user_ocid>"
fingerprint          = "<finger_print>"
private_key_path     = "<pem_private_key_path>"

# Region
region = "<oci_region>"

# Availability Domain 
availability_domain_name = "<availability_domain_name>"

# Compartment
compartment_ocid = "<compartment_ocid>"
```

### Create the Resources
Run the following commands:

    terraform init
    terraform plan
    terraform apply

### Destroy the Deployment
When you no longer need the deployment, you can run this command to destroy the resources:

    terraform destroy


[oci]: https://cloud.oracle.com
[orm]: https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/ResourceManager/Concepts/resourcemanager.htm
[tf]: https://www.terraform.io
[orm_landing]:https://www.oracle.com/cloud/systems-management/resource-manager/
[magic_button]: https://oci-resourcemanager-plugin.plugins.oci.oraclecloud.com/latest/deploy-to-oracle-cloud.svg
[magic_rm_stack]: https://cloud.oracle.com/resourcemanager/stacks/create?region=home&zipUrl=https://github.com/ahmedmansour5/Jenkins-CI-CD-OCI/releases/latest/download/jenkins-stack-configuration.zip

Commit message:

adds the license info for Oracle

README.md, after:

# Jenkins-CI-CD-OCI
[![License: UPL](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-UPL-green)](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-UPL-green)

Deploy a Jenkins CI/CD pipeline using Docker containers on Oracle Linux VM


## Reference Architecture 
The final reference architecture after the deployment and some key components are described below.

![Reference Architecture](https://github.com/ahmedmansour5/Jenkins-CI-CD-OCI/blob/main/Image/Architecture.png)


## Prerequisites

- Permission to `manage` the following types of resources in your Oracle Cloud Infrastructure tenancy: `vcns`, `internet-gateways`, `route-tables`, `network-security-groups`, `subnets`, and `instances`.

- Quota to create the following resources: 1 VCN, 1 subnet, 1 Internet Gateway, 1 NAT Gateway, 2 route rules, and 1 compute instance.

If you don't have the required permissions and quota, contact your tenancy administrator. See [Policy Reference](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/Reference/policyreference.htm), [Service Limits](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/Concepts/servicelimits.htm), [Compartment Quotas](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/General/Concepts/resourcequotas.htm).

## Deployment Options
The pipeline can be deployed on [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure][oci] using the below deployment options:

1. [Terraform][tf] 
2. [Resource Manager][orm_landing] by clicking the following button  [![Deploy to Oracle Cloud][magic_button]][magic_rm_stack]


## Deploy Using Oracle Resource Manager
The steps below guide you through deploying the pipeline on your tenancy using the OCI Resource Manager:

1. Download the [`jenkins-stack-configuration.zip`](https://github.com/ahmedmansour5/Jenkins-CI-CD-OCI/releases/latest/download/jenkins-stack-configuration.zip) file.
2. [Login](https://cloud.oracle.com/resourcemanager/stacks/create) to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure to import the stack
    > `Home > Developer Services > Resource Manager > Stacks > Create Stack`
3. Upload the `jenkins-stack-configuration.zip` file that was downloaded earlier, and provide a name and description for the stack
4. Configure the stack
   1. **Jenkins username** - Provide a username for jenkins login
   2. **Jenkins password** - Provide a password for jenkins login
5. Review the information and click Create button.
   > The upload can take a few seconds, after which you will be taken to the newly created stack
6. On Stack details page, click on `Terraform Actions > Apply`

The private ssh key for the Linux VM will be displayed along with the public ip of the server on the Application Information tab.

## Deploy Using the Terraform CLI

### Clone the Repository
Now, you'll want a local copy of this repo. You can make that with the commands:

    git clone https://github.com/ahmedmansour5/Jenkins-CI-CD-OCI.git
    cd Jenkins-CI-CD-OCI
    ls

2. Create a `terraform.tfvars` file, and specify the following variables:

```
# Authentication
tenancy_ocid         = "<tenancy_ocid>"
user_ocid            = "<user_ocid>"
fingerprint          = "<finger_print>"
private_key_path     = "<pem_private_key_path>"

# Region
region = "<oci_region>"

# Availability Domain 
availability_domain_name = "<availability_domain_name>"

# Compartment
compartment_ocid = "<compartment_ocid>"
```

### Create the Resources
Run the following commands:

    terraform init
    terraform plan
    terraform apply

### Destroy the Deployment
When you no longer need the deployment, you can run this command to destroy the resources:

    terraform destroy


## License
Copyright (c) 2023 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

Licensed under the Universal Permissive License (UPL), Version 1.0.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more details.

[oci]: https://cloud.oracle.com
[orm]: https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/ResourceManager/Concepts/resourcemanager.htm
[tf]: https://www.terraform.io
[orm_landing]:https://www.oracle.com/cloud/systems-management/resource-manager/
[magic_button]: https://oci-resourcemanager-plugin.plugins.oci.oraclecloud.com/latest/deploy-to-oracle-cloud.svg
[magic_rm_stack]: https://cloud.oracle.com/resourcemanager/stacks/create?region=home&zipUrl=https://github.com/ahmedmansour5/Jenkins-CI-CD-OCI/releases/latest/download/jenkins-stack-configuration.zip
